
On Academic Activism and STARs

STARs, an acronym for 'slow, tiny, acts of resistance' are described as the smaller actions that someone can take or things they can do in everyday life (such as putting up sticky notes to shine a light on something, sharing ressources with others, or asking critical questions even if that could make it uncomfortable), alongside bigger „acts of resistance“. Ideally, they can be creative and fun.

This installation was inspired by a paper by Harré et al. (2017). For more context and background, scan the QR code or go to mikeauertum.github.io/not-yet-titled_2026/
If you would like to, you can also add feedback there :)







On Academic Activism and STARs

In the seminar 'Applying Critical Theories in the Social Sciences', we read the paper 'The university as an infinite game' (Harré et al., 2017).
Like others in Critical University Studies, this paper discusses aspects of the current neoliberal university and criticizes the amount of competitiveness, that can get in the way of the shared goals and values that academia has. In it, the authors call for more academic activism, give their own perspectives from their academic lifes, and also propose STARs as one possible part of academic activism.

STARs, an acronym for 'slow, tiny, acts of resistance' are described as the smaller actions that someone can take or things they can do in everyday life (such as putting up sticky notes to shine a light on something, sharing ressources with others, or asking critical questions even if that could make it uncomfortable), alongside bigger „acts of resistance“. Ideally, they can be creative and fun.

I chose to do my creative final project for the seminar inspired by this, because while there are many things that annoy me and that I sometimes even would like to do something about them, I often feel like any action I would be doing could be bigger and more thought through, resulting in me actually not doing anything* most of the time.
(* Actually, I think I still often talk to friends about it, which also is doing something! But still, I would like to reach others as well.)

In doing my project as an interactive installation, it could itself than be seen as a STAR, hopefully having been / being fun for you, and possibly even inspiring some to question more, including what can/could be possible at (our) university, what we would like it to be (or maybe also what currently annoys us), and to also take more smaller actions where we would like to. 
Because together, they can add to a larger picture,[/;] and [(critique and)] transform current structures towards something we want them to be. [Something more free for all.]



And of course, never limited to university :)





(And in itself, this can even be seen as a star.)





Note:
This is meant as an explanation and background to my interactive installation „Not yet titled (Stars)“. Large parts are written from memory, only for this purpose. For any more scientific/academic reference and true reflection of the paper, please reference/read the paper itself :)


I do not agree with everything from the paper, and would critique different aspects myself.

Critical University Studies










I deliberately did not add any context in the beginning.